- Grab and Analyze Network Information
  ```bash
    ifconfig
  ```
  - **<detected_device><n>:** The name of the detected interface. For instance, `docker0`, `eth0`, `l0`. 
    - **eth0:** `Ethernet0`; First wired connection.
    - **l0:** `loopback address`; It is short for loopback address and sometimes is called localhost. It lets us to connect to our own system.
    - **docker0:** `Docker Bridge`; Virtual network interface created by Docker for container communication.
    - **wlan0:** `Wireless Interace/Adapter`.
  - **inet:** `IP Address` currently assigned to the network interface. 
  - **netmask:** `Network Mask` is used to determine what part of the IP address is connected to the network.
  - **broadcast:** `Broadcast Address` is used to send out information to all IPs on the subnet.
  - **inet6:** `IPv6 Address` currently assigned to the network interface.
  - **ether:** `MAC Address` (Media Access Control) is the unique hardware address assigned to the network interface.
- Checking Wireless Network Device
  ```bash
    iwconfig
  ```
  - **wlan0:** Wireless Extension. 
  - **IEEE Standards b, g, n:** 2 early wireless communication standards; latest
  - **Managed:** Mode of the wireless extension.
  - **Not Associated:** Wireless Adapter not connected to an access point.
  - **20 dBm:** The strength of the signal.
- **Note:** _We will consider the first wired connection to perform the changes._ 
- Change IP Address to `192.168.181.115`
  ```bash
    ifconfig eth0 192.168.181.115
  ```
- Change Network Mask to `255.255.0.0`
  ```bash
    ifconfig netmask 255.255.0.0
  ```
- Change Broadcast Address to `192.168.1.255`
  ```bash
    ifconfig eth0 broadcast 192.168.1.255
  ```
- Perform all the changes combined
  ```bash
    ifconfig eth0 192.168.181.115 netmask 255.255.0.0 broadcast 192.168.1.255
  ```
- Spoof MAC Address to `00:11:22:33:44:55`
  ```bash
    ifconfig eth0 down
    ifconfig hw ether 00:11:22:33:44:55
    ifconfig eth0 up
  ```
- Check the changes performed
  ```bash
    ifconfig
  ```
- Assign new IP Address from DHCP
  ```bash
    dhclient eth0
  ```
  - If it raises issues, follow the directives from CLI.
    ```bash
      sudo apt install isc-dhcp-client
    ```
- How DHCP works
    - The dhclient command sends a DHCPDISCOVER request from the network interface specified
    - It then receives an offer (DHCPOFFER) from the DHCP server
    - It confirms the IP assignment to the DHCP server with a dhcp request.
- Examine DNS
  - **Note:** _We will consider hackers-arise.com to get info._
  - Examine nameserver
    ```bash
      dig hackers-arise.com ns
    ```
  - Examine mail exchange server
    ```bash
      dig hackers-arise.com mx
    ```
- Install `l3afpad`
  ```bash
    sudo apt install l3afpad
  ```
- Open `/etc/resolv.conf` in `l3afpad`
  ```bash
    sudo l3afpad /etc/resolv.conf
  ```
  - Change nameserver to `8.8.8.8` 
  - Save it
    ```plain text
      As L3afpad is a text editor, so we can directly perform changes there and save it.
    ```
  - Check Changes performed
    ```bash
      cat /etc/resolv.conf
    ```
- Revert back to the previous nameserver
  ```bash
    sudo systemctl restart NetworkManager
    sudo systemctl status NetworkManager
    cat /etc/resolv.conf
  ```
- Remove the new entry for `google.com`.
  ```md
    - Open the file in l3afpad.
    - Remove the new entry and save it.
  ```