- **Note:** _We always need to run commands using `sudo` with root permit for changes._
- Use Debian-based Software Manager
  - **Note:** _We will use `snort` to perform tasks._
  - Name and Primary Command
    - Advanced Packaging Tool; apt-get
  - Search for the package
    ```bash
        apt-cache search snort
    ```
  - Add Software
    ```bash
        sudo apt-get install snort
    ```
  - Remove Software
    ```bash
        sudo apt-get remove snort
    ```
  - Remove Sofware along with Configuration Files
    ```bash
        sudo apt-get purge snort
    ```
- Tell the difference between `Update` and `Upgrade`.
  ```plain text
  Updating isn’t the same as upgrading. Updating simply updates the list of packages available for download from the repository, whereas upgrading will upgrade the package to the latest version in the repository.
  ```
- Update Packages.
  ```
    apt-get update
  ```
- Upgrading Packages.
  ```
    apt-get upgrade
  ```
- Using GUI-Based Installer
  - Name 2 common ones.
    - synaptic
    - gdebi
  - Install `synaptic`.
    ```bash
      sudo apt-get install synaptic
    ```
  - Run `synaptic` from terminal.
    ```bash
      sudo synaptic
    ```
  - Search for `snort` and install it using `synaptic`.
    - Click on `Search for Packages` from the top right navigation.
    - A `Search` window will pop-up. Now search for `snort` there.
    - Select the package from the `Search Results`.
    - Right click on the element and select `Mark for Installation`.
    - Now click on `Apply` button from the top left.
    - Again a new window will appear, click on `Apply`. 
    - The package will be installed. 
  - Search for `snort` and remove/completely remove using `synaptic`.
    - All the steps till `Right click` will be the same.
    - Now select 
      - `Mark for Removal`
      - `Mark for Complete Removal`
    - Click on the green `Apply` button and `Apply` on the new window.
  - A new window with `Changes Applied` will appear and we can click on `Close`. 
- Installing Software with GIT.
  - Install BlueDiving from `https://github.com/balle/bluediving.git`.
    ```bash
      git clone https://github.com/balle/bluediving.git
    ```
  - Remove bluediving.
    ```
      rm -rf bluediving
    ```
- **Note:** _Make sure to uninstall the installed softwares to practice the commands again._